# DUO116

This linter searches for use of the `subprocess` module with `shell=True`.
This module commonly allows for arbitrary code execution bugs when combined
with user input.

## Problematic code

```python
import subprocess

malicious_filename = "file; cat /etc/passwd"
subprocess.Popen("touch " + malicious_filename, shell=True)
```

## Correct code

```python
import subprocess

filename = "file"
subprocess.Popen(["touch", filename])
```

## Rationale

From the Python documentation:

> Unlike some other popen functions, this implementation will never implicitly
> call a system shell. This means that all characters, including shell
> metacharacters, can safely be passed to child processes. If the shell is
> invoked explicitly, `via shell=True`, it is the application's responsibility
> to ensure that all whitespace and metacharacters are quoted appropriately to
> avoid shell injection vulnerabilities.
>
> When using `shell=True`, the `shlex.quote()` function can be used to properly
> escape whitespace and shell metacharacters in strings that are going to be
> used to construct shell commands.

## Exceptions

There are few situations where `shell=True` is actually necessary over simply
passing a list of arguments to a subprocess.

The Python documentation offers some insight into when it may be necessary, but
also shows that you may not need shell-like features:

> If `shell` is `True`, the specified command will be executed through the
> shell. This can be useful if you are using Python primarily for the enhanced
> control flow it offers over most system shells and still want convenient access
> to other shell features such as shell pipes, filename wildcards, environment
> variable expansion, and expansion of `~` to a user's home directory. However,
> note that Python itself offers implementations of many shell-like features
> (in particular, `glob`, `fnmatch`, `os.walk()`, `os.path.expandvars()`,
> `os.path.expanduser()`, and `shutil`).

Other exceptions include argument strings that have been correctly escaped,
although correct escaping is a notoriously hard problem.
