# DUO138

This linter searches for regular expressions that may, under certain inputs,
exhibit catastrophic backtracking in the Python [`re`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html)
module. For more information on catastrophic backtracking see:

* [Runaway Regular Expressions: Catastrophic Backtracking](https://www.regular-expressions.info/catastrophic.html)
* [Preventing Regular Expression Denial of Service (ReDoS)](https://www.regular-expressions.info/redos.html)
* [Regex Performance](https://blog.codinghorror.com/regex-performance/)
* [Regular Expression Denial of Service (ReDoS) and Catastrophic Backtracking](https://snyk.io/blog/redos-and-catastrophic-backtracking/)
* [Javascript Catastrophic Backtracking](https://javascript.info/regexp-catastrophic-backtracking)

## Problematic code

There are many ways that ReDoS can occur. The following examples show ReDoS via
nested quantifier and mutually inclusive alternation, respectively:

```python
import re

subject = 'x' * 64
re.search(r'(x+x+)+y', subject)  # Boom
```

```python
import re

subject = 'a' * 64
re.search(r'(.|[abc])+z', subject)  # Boom
```

## Correct code

The above examples can be corrected with the following changes:

```python
import re

subject = 'x' * 64
re.search(r'xx+y', subject)
```

```python
import re

subject = 'a' * 64
re.search(r'.+z', subject)
```

Rarely will there be one-size-fits-all solutions to catastrophic backtracking.
Developing a deeper understanding of the issue, and regular expressions in
general, is often the best solution. Whenenever you're working with regular
expressions you must always ask yourself if this is a potentially catastrophic
expression.

## Rationale

Catastrophic backtracking will often lead to denial-of-service. Catastrophic
cases may take days, weeks, or years to complete which may leave your service
degraded or unusable.

## Exceptions

* Nested quantifiers with small maximums may be okay (e.g. `{1,3}`). However,
sensible runtimes for your code are application-dependent. Even with small
maximums the runtime will depend on many factors including subject length,
machine hardware, and repetition size. Proceed with nested quantifiers at your
own risk.

## Debugging

The Dlint ReDoS module (`dlint.redos`) comes with a CLI interface for quick
debugging and testing. E.g.

```
$ python -m dlint.redos --pattern '(.|[abc])+z'
('(.|[abc])+z', True)
```

```
$ python -m dlint.redos --pattern '.+z'
('.+z', False)
```

You can dump the pattern in a more digestible format:

```
$ python -m dlint.redos --pattern '(.|[abc])+z' --dump
MAX_REPEAT 1 MAXREPEAT
  SUBPATTERN 1 0 0
    BRANCH
      ANY None
    OR
      IN
        LITERAL 97
        LITERAL 98
        LITERAL 99
LITERAL 122
```

Or dump the internal tree representation that Dlint uses:

```
$ python -m dlint.redos --pattern '(.|[abc])+z' --dump-tree
None: ()
  MAX_REPEAT: (1, MAXREPEAT)
    SUBPATTERN: (1, 0, 0)
      BRANCH: ()
        ANY: (None,)
        IN: ((LITERAL, 97), (LITERAL, 98), (LITERAL, 99))
  LITERAL: (122,)
```

You can also extend this functionality to analyze patterns from other
regular expression modules or languages by piping a pattern to this interface:

```
$ echo -n '(.|[abc])+z' | python -m dlint.redos --pattern -
('(.|[abc])+z', True)
```
