# DUO134

This linter searches for insecure attribute use of the `cryptography` module.

The Python `cryptography` library has become the defacto standard for
crytographic operations. Cryptographic operations are notoriously difficult
to get correct and often come with many gotchas. This linter searches for
insecure cryptographic primitives and operations in the `cryptography` library.

## Problematic code

Any code using the following primitives/attributes should be considered
cryptographically deprecated and insecure:

```python
cryptography.hazmat.primitives.hashes.MD5
cryptography.hazmat.primitives.hashes.SHA1
cryptography.hazmat.primitives.ciphers.modes.ECB
cryptography.hazmat.primitives.ciphers.algorithms.Blowfish
cryptography.hazmat.primitives.ciphers.algorithms.ARC4
cryptography.hazmat.primitives.ciphers.algorithms.IDEA
```

Dlint also looks for PKCS1 v1.5 usage via the following attribute:

```python
cryptography.hazmat.primitives.asymmetric.padding.PKCS1v15
```

This primitive is not as strictly insecure as the above primitives, but its
usage should still be limited.

## Correct code

There are secure alternatives documented in the following locations:

* [https://cryptography.io/en/latest/hazmat/primitives/cryptographic-hashes/](https://cryptography.io/en/latest/hazmat/primitives/cryptographic-hashes/)
* [https://cryptography.io/en/latest/hazmat/primitives/symmetric-encryption/#algorithms](https://cryptography.io/en/latest/hazmat/primitives/symmetric-encryption/#algorithms)

For PKCS1 v1.5 alternatives consider the following:

* For signing operations: [`cryptography.hazmat.primitives.asymmetric.padding.PSS`](https://cryptography.io/en/latest/hazmat/primitives/asymmetric/rsa/#cryptography.hazmat.primitives.asymmetric.padding.PSS)
* For encryption operations: [`cryptography.hazmat.primitives.asymmetric.padding.OAEP`](https://cryptography.io/en/latest/hazmat/primitives/asymmetric/rsa/#cryptography.hazmat.primitives.asymmetric.padding.OAEP)

## Rationale

The problematic hashing algorithms mentioned above have known collision
weaknesses.

The use of the ECB cipher mode can leave significant patterns in the output,
which can be used for cryptanalysis.

The problematic cipher algorithms mentioned above are susceptible to attacks
when using weak keys and can have serious weaknesses in their initial stream
output.

Finally, PKCS1 v1.5, when used in encryption operations, is vulnerable to chosen
ciphertext attacks.

## Exceptions

* `PKCS1v15` may be used for legacy applications, but should not be considered
for new applications. It is still recommended to move away from `PKCS1v15`
usage as soon as possible.
