# DUO136

This linter searches for insecure attribute use of the `xmlsec` module.

Cryptographic operations are notoriously difficult to get correct and often
come with many gotchas. This linter searches for insecure cryptographic
primitives and operations in the `xmlsec` library.

## Problematic code

Any code using the following primitives/attributes should be considered
cryptographically deprecated and insecure:

```python
xmlsec.constants.TransformDes3Cbc
xmlsec.constants.TransformKWDes3
xmlsec.constants.TransformDsaSha1
xmlsec.constants.TransformEcdsaSha1
xmlsec.constants.TransformRsaMd5
xmlsec.constants.TransformRsaRipemd160
xmlsec.constants.TransformRsaSha1
xmlsec.constants.TransformRsaPkcs1
xmlsec.constants.TransformMd5
xmlsec.constants.TransformRipemd160
xmlsec.constants.TransformSha1
```

## Correct code

For `Des3` alternatives consider using AES, such as:
`xmlsec.constants.TransformAes256Cbc`.

For `Md5`, `Ripemd160`, and `Sha1` alternatives consider using the
[SHA-2 family of hashing functions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SHA-2),
such as: `xmlsec.constants.TransformRsaSha256`.

For `Pkcs1` alternatives consider using OAEP:
`xmlsec.constants.TransformRsaOaep`.

## Rationale

The use of Triple DES is still considered secure is some scenarios, but it's
usage should be updated to AES as soon as possible. Triple DES is vulnerable
to the [Sweet32](https://sweet32.info/) attack in some scenarios. Further,
Triple DES has been removed from the OpenSSL default cipher list in version
1.1.0 and has been removed from TLSv1.3, implying its usage should be limited
moving forward.

The problematic hashing algorithms mentioned above have known collision
weaknesses.

Finally, PKCS1, when used in encryption operations, is vulnerable to chosen
ciphertext attacks.

## Exceptions

* Triple DES may be used for legacy applications which encrypt relatively small
amounts of information, e.g. small data sets, not long-lived web protocols.
* `PKCS1` may be used for legacy applications, but should not be considered
for new applications. It is still recommended to move away from `PKCS1`
usage as soon as possible.
